<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_vbb_dq2_54">
	<title>Contributing</title>
	<shortdesc>The Couchbase .NET SDK is a community driven, open source software project licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. Contributions are welcomed and certainly encouraged! The following section defines the contribution process.
	</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<section>
			<title>Github</title>
			<p>All source associated with the project lives in github at the
					following repo: <xref
						href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client" format="html"
						scope="external">https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client</xref>
			</p>
			<p>There are two active branches at the time of this writing:</p>
			<p>
			<ol>
				<li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/release13" format="html"
						scope="external">release13</xref>: development branch for version 1.X</li>
				<li><xref href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-net-client/tree/master" format="html"
						scope="external">master: </xref>development branch for 2.X</li>
			</ol>
			</p>
			<p>Pull requests should be made to the appropriate branch based upon the version of the SDK that the submission is targeting.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Contributor Agreement License</title>
			<p>All pull requests must go through a review process before being merged into their respective branches on Github. A prerequisite for accepting a pull request is that the contributor has read and signed the Couchbase Contributor License Agreement or CAL. This can be done through Gerrit, our code review system.</p>
			<p>Gerrit is the official code review system for the Couchbase SDK’s. Community members who wish to contribute, must create a Gerrit account and as previously stated, sign the CLA. The steps for doing this are as follows:
			</p>
			<p>
				<ol>
					<li>Navigate to review.couchbase.org</li>
					<li>Select “register” from the menu on the top right hand side</li>
					<li>Use can use a Google, Yahoo or any other OpenId account to register</li>
					<li>After you have signed in you will be prompted to verify your email and provide a username</li>
					<li>At the very bottom of the page, click the “New Contributor Agreement” link and follow the directions to sign the CLA and finally “Submit Agreement”
					</li>
				</ol>
			</p>
			<p>Once you have signed the CLA, it’s official, you can now contribute to the Couchbase .NET SDK!</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>The Code Review Process</title>
			<p>The typical flow of a community contribution is through a <xref
					href="https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests" format="html"
					scope="external">pull request</xref>. Locally, you would <xref
					href="https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo" format="html"
					scope="external">clone</xref> the repository, make your changes and <xref
					href="https://help.github.com/articles/pushing-to-a-remote" format="html"
					scope="external">push </xref>your changes to your fork of the repository. From
				there, using Github, you would create a pull request and submit it to the
				appropriate branch. The maintainer of the SDK will then decide whether to accept or
				deny the pull request. If the maintainer decides to accept the pull request, then
				they will push the pull request to <xref href="https://code.google.com/p/gerrit/"
					format="html" scope="external">Gerrit</xref>, the code review system used
				internally within Couchbase.</p>
			<p>Once the submission has been pushed to Gerrit, it will be reviewed by one or more Couchbase engineers. Very likely this will be the maintainer of the SDK. 
				A reviewer will rank the change-set by one of the following values:</p>
			<p>
				<ol>
					<li>+2 looks good to me approved</li>
					<li>+1 looks good, but someone else must approve</li>
					<li>0 no score</li>
					<li>-1 I would prefer you do not submit this</li>
					<li>-2 Do not submit</li>
				</ol>
			</p>
			<p>Gerrit uses the concepts of a change-set and patch-sets, a change-set is the submission under review, a patchset is ammendment to that change-set. The reviewer may ask for several patch-sets to be committed before approving a submission. Typically a score of less than 2 will not be accepted.</p>
			<p>Once the submission has made it through code review, it will pushed from Gerrit to Github. The maintainer will do this for you.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
