<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cn2_5ck_r4">
 <title>Release notes</title>
 <shortdesc>Release notes for the 2.0 version of the Node.js SDK.</shortdesc>
	
	<concept id="dp1">
		<title>Version 2.0 Beta 1</title>
		<shortdesc>Version 2.0 Beta 1 is the first beta release of the Node.js SDK version 2.0. This
			release includes new documentation, new API reference, and a tested interface that
			represents all committed features. Various uncommitted and experimental features might
			change prior to the  final release of version 2.0.0.</shortdesc>
		
		<concept id="dp1-enhance">
			<title>Enhancements and behavioral changes</title>
			<conbody>
				<ul>
					<li>A new API has been developed for this new release. This includes a more developer-friendly
						CRUD operation interface, improvements regarding view and N1QL queries, and an
						enhanced cluster and bucket management interface. See the documentation and API
						Reference for further details.</li>
					<li>The view querying interface has been rewritten to permit streaming of rows
						as they are available rather than waiting for the whole result set before
						dispatching.</li>
					<li>Many of the bulk operation methods have been removed (except for getMulti). These
						operations were previously available primarily for performance reasons, however
						this performance benefit has now been integrated into all operations.</li>
					<li>The API Reference has been revamped to provide many more details regarding
						all events, classes and their methods.</li>
					<li>Numerous performance enhancements have been made within the underlying library,
						libcouchbase, which powers the Node.js SDK. </li>
				</ul>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
		
		<concept id="dp1-known">
			<title>Known issues</title>
			<conbody>
				<ul>
					<li>Due to changes in the handling of document metadata, it is imperative that in mixed-version
						environments, all Node.js clients must be upgraded to a minimum of version 1.2.4
						prior to deploying any 2.0.0 clients.</li><li>The built-in Mock testing interface has been updated to match the new API changes, however, the
						view mocking engine has not yet been ported. This means attempts to execute view
						queries against Mock will currently fail with a "not supported" exception. This
						will be ported prior to the GA release of 2.0.0.</li>
					<li>The querying interface for N1QL is currently not capable of streaming rows individually and
						instead only emits a single callback after all results have been aggregated. This
						is scheduled to be corrected shortly after the release of DP4 of the N1QL Query
						Engine.</li>
					<li>Specifying an incorrect number of servers for replica read or durability
						requirements will cause the operation to time out rather than emitting an error as
						intended. This is expected to be fixed following the libcouchbase 2.4.1
						release.</li></ul>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
		
	</concept>
	

</concept>
