<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_az5_mhq_44">
 <title>Creating documents</title>
  <shortdesc>The <apiname>IDocument&lt;T&gt;</apiname> interface represents an abstraction for working with documents in Couchbase Server.
  </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
   <p>The default implementation of <apiname>IDocument&lt;T&gt;</apiname>is the <apiname>Document&lt;T&gt;</apiname> class, which provides the following properties:</p>
   <p>
        <table id="table_p4p_t3d_3p">
          <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="1.14*"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3" colwidth="5.17*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Name</entry>
                <entry>Type</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry>Id</entry>
              <entry>string</entry>
              <entry>The unique identifier for the document</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cas</entry>
              <entry>ulong</entry>
              <entry>The “Check and Set” value for enforcing optimistic concurrency</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Expiry</entry>
              <entry>uint</entry>
              <entry>The time-to-live (TTL) of the document in milliseconds. A value of zero or less
                for infinite lifetime.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Value</entry>
              <entry>Generic T</entry>
              <entry>The actual document value to store. This can be a scalar value, an object, or a
                dynamic type.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
   <p>The following code snippet shows how to insert a document into Couchbase:</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-csharp">
  var document = new Document&lt;Person&gt;
  {
      Id = "P1",
      Value = new Person
      {
          FirstName = "John",
          LastName = "Adams",
          Age = 21
      }
  };

  var result = bucket.Insert(document);
  if (result.Success)
  {
      Console.WriteLine("Inserted document '{0}'", document.Id);
  }
   </codeblock>
   <p>In this example, we are using the <apiname>Insert()</apiname> method, which creates a document if it doesn’t exist, failing if it does. Besides the <apiname>Upsert()</apiname> method there are two other methods for inserting documents. The following table shows the methods that are available for storing documents in Couchbase:
   </p>
   <p>
        <table id="table_dgx_4jd_3p">
          <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colwidth="4.05*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry dir="ltr">Name</entry>
              <entry dir="ltr">Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry dir="ltr">Insert</entry>
              <entry dir="ltr">Inserts a document, failing if it already exists</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry dir="ltr">Replace</entry>
              <entry dir="ltr">Replaces a document, failing if doesn’t exist</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry dir="ltr">Upsert</entry>
              <entry dir="ltr">Updates a document if it exists, otherwise inserts the
                document</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
   <p>If the CAS (Check and Set) or Expires value is set, they will be honored for each operation.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
